It was the man from Ironbark that struck the Sydney town,
He wandered over street and park, he wandered up and down.
He loitered here, he loitered there, 'til he was like to drop,
Until at last in sheer despair he sought a barber shop.
"'Ere, shave me beard and whiskers off, I'll be a man of mark,
I'll go and do the Sydney toff up home in Ironbark".

The barber-man was small and flash, as barbers mostly are.
He wore a strike-your-fancy sash, and smoked a huge cigar.
He was a humorist of note, and keen at repartee;
He laid the odds and kept a tote, whatever that may be.
And when he saw our friend arrive, he murmered 'here's a lark -
Just watch me catch him all alive, this man from Ironbark'.

There was a row of gilded youths that sat against the wall.
Their heads were flat, their eyes were dull, they had no brains at all.
To them the barber gave the wink, his dexter eyelid shut -
"Just watch me make this blimmin' yokel think his blimmin' throat's been cut."
And he soaped and rubbed it in he made a rude remark -
"I s'pose the flats is pretty green up home in Ironbark".

A grunt was all reply he got.  He shaved the bushman's chin,
Then made the water boiling hot and dipped the razor in.
His hand went back, his grow grew black - he paused a while to gloat -
Then slashed the red-hot razor back across the bushman's throat.
Across the newly-shaven skin it made a livid mark,
No doubt it fairly took him in, that man from Ironbark.

He lifted up one hairy paw, with one tremendous clout,
He landed on the barber's jaw and knocked the barber out.
He set to work with nail and tooth, he made the place a wreck,
He grabbed the nearest gilded youth and tried to break his neck!
And all the while his throat he held to save that vital spark.
And "Murder, bloody murder!" cried the man from Ironbark.

A peeler-man who heard the din came in to see the show.
He tried to run the bushman in, but he refused to go.
And when at last the barber spoke and said, "'twas all in fun,
'twas just a harmless little joke a trifle overdone."
"A joke?" he cried, "by George, that's fine, a lively sort of lark!
Just let me catch that murdering swine back home in Ironbark!"

And now around the shearing floor the listening shearers gape.
He tells the story o'er and o'er and brags of his escape.
"Those barber chaps wot keep a tote, by George I've had enough.
One tried to blimmin' cut me throat, but thank the Lord it's tough!"
And whether he's believed or not, there's one thing to remark -
That flowing bears are all the go up there in Ironbark.
